In this lecture we will learn about CSSA properties that allow us to modify the style or type of an
HDMI.
Let's first let's create an team a list that we will use to see these example list styles applied to.
We will create an unworded list with three list elements then we will jump to the web browser and run
our code.
We should see an unordered list displayed with three list items.
Let's jump back to the editor the list style type.
Property allows us to specify the type of marker used for the items in our list an unordered list can
have a list style type of disc circle square or none of value of disk for the list style type property
is the default and results in the list items having filled in bullet points next to them.
Let's say at an opening and closing style tag to our code specify the style to apply to the unordered
list elements and give our list a list style type value of deaths.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code
then we will go back to the editor and look at another example.
If we give our unordered list a list style type of circle it will make the bullet points hollow circles.
Let's change this property's value to a circle and go to the web browser to run our code as you can
see there are hollow circles next to our list elements.
Now let's jump back to the editor.
If we give our an ordered list the list style type of square it will make the bullet point Square we
will change the list style type property to a value of square and then when our code in the web browser
as you can see the list items are now marked by squares next to each of them.
Let's go back to the editor of value of None will make there be no bullet points next to the items in
our list.
Let's change the list style type of our list to none and then jumped to the web browser.
When we run our code you will notice that our list items don't have markers next to them.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
Let's change the UL tags in our example list to all tags to change the unordered list to an ordered
list.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our list items are now numbered since
we changed our list from an unwanted list to an ordered list.
Then we will go back to the editor.
There are several list style types that we can specify for ordered lists assigning the list style type
property value of decimal number of the items in the list.
When we go to the web browser and run the code you will notice that the items are numbered the same
way they were when we didn't specify a value of decimal for the list style type.
Decimal is the default value for the list style type property.
If you are working with an ordered list then we will go back to the editor and look at another example
assigning the list style type property value of decimal leading 0 will number the items in the list
with an additional zero in front of the number.
Let's change the list style type value of our list to decimal leading zero and go to the web browser
to run our code.
Then we will jump back to the editor giving a value of lower alpha to the list style type property will
add lower case letters next to each item in the list.
Let's give our list style type property a value of lower alpha and then go to the web browser to run
our code then we will jump back to the editor giving a value of upper alpha to the list style type property
we'll add uppercase letters next to each item in our list.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as you can see there are now uppercase letters next to
each item in our list.
Then we will go back to the editor and look at another example giving a value of lower Rollman to the
list style type property will add lowercase Roman numerals next to each item in our list.
We will change the value of the list style type property to lower Rollman and then run our code in the
web browser
then we will go back to the editor a value of upper Rollman for the list style type property will add
upper case roman numerals next to each item in our list.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our list items now of upper case roman numerals
as item markers next to them.
Let's jump back to the editor.
Let's change our example list back to an unordered list.
Another property supported by unworded lists is the list style image property.
This property lets us use an image next to our items as opposed to bullet points.
For this example we will add the storm PMG image as the list style image of our left.
Then we will go to the web browser and when our code
but then we will jump back to the editor the list style position property allows us to specify whether
we want the bullet point to be inside or outside of the list item assigning the list style position
property value of inside we'll put the bullet points inside of the list items then we will run our code
in a web browser.
Let's jump back to the editor of value of outside will put the bullet points outside the list elements
we will change the list style position of our list to outside and then go to the web browser to run
our code
then we will jump back to the editor.
Additionally CSSA gives us the list style property which we can use to specify the list style type list
style position and list style image all in one.
Let's say had this property to our list and then go back to the web browser to run our code
in the next lecture we will learn about how we can use CSSA to color our list.